Transforming lives: Girls Who Game 

What is the Girls Who Game program?

Girls Who Game (GWG) is an extracurricular program created by Dell Technologies with partners Microsoft and Intel. It exposes young, undeserved girls to the world of gaming, teaching them new ways of applying  STEM learning in the process.  
This is an engaging, technology-based program  designed to captivate female students in grades 4-8 in learner-driven experiences. The goal is to help  students acquire skills like computational and critical  thinking, communication, collaboration, creativity,  problem solving, and innovation. The girls are then  empowered to become leaders in STEM-related fields.

Call to action

Computing skills are highly sought after in the  job market, with demand growing at 3X the North American average. Less than a quarter of computing  jobs are held by women, and that number is declining.

• Women constitute 50% of the overall workforce and only 28% of the Science & Engineering workforce¹  
• 11% of Science, Technology, Engineering,  and Mathematics (STEM) jobs are held by  women of color²  
• Less than 50% of high school girls know  a woman in a STEM career³

1. Women in Computer Science: Getting Involved in STEM  
2. Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities in Science and Engineering (2017). National Science Foundation  
3. The Girl Scout Research Institute. (2012). Generation STEM: What girls say about science, technology, engineering, and math. New York, NY: Girl Scouts of the USA

Girls can progress and grow in this program  through three levels: 
Challenge Mode focuses on building the GWG club community, including the introduction of female technology mentors. Using Minecraft: Education Edition, the aim is to develop game based skills, global competencies and leadership skills while working toward a final culminating task.  

Leadership Mode concentrates on the development of leadership skills and teamwork expertise. Participants have the potential to develop into Junior Mentors during this stage. Esports are introduced and leads to a culminating event where the girls play against each other and/or their mentors. 

STEM Esports Mode focuses on building an esports team. The Junior Mentors further continue their development into team leaders. A strategy playbook is created by the club, and the culminating event involves multiple clubs participating in an esports event, finishing with a celebration and awards! 

To learn more about the Girls Who Game Program, visit our website.

Girls Who Game resources and documents cannot be used or sold independently outside of the Dell Technologies Girls Who Game Program. © 2023 Dell Inc. All rights reserved. Internal Use - Confidential 

Transforming lives: Girls Who Game

Strategically innovating the success of tomorrow 

Our goals  Attained through these activities
Authentic Application: 
Engage female students in grades 4-8 in learner-driven experiences that  broaden their knowledge,  skills, and dispositions within  STEM related fields.
• Leverage game-based learning resources across multiple disciplines.  
• Increase awareness and improve global competencies by providing  experiences for students to develop and practice their collaboration,  communication, creativity, self-regulation, citizenship, and critical  thinking and problem-solving skills.

Develop mentorship:  
Foster the pursuit of academic  and career aspirations of young women through mentorship.
• Facilitate virtual mentors to inspire, educate, and equip girls from the program with authentic application of necessary knowledge, skills, and dispositions to be successful in STEM fields.

Build a community of learners:  
Cultivate a community to support  building relationships, amplifying  success, and promoting reflection  for continued growth and ongoing feedback.
• Develop a girl-centric ecosystem that empowers girls to learn from  each other and build their confidence in a STEM-focused space.  
• Provide professional development in order to build knowledge,  confidence and advocacy in STEM disciplines.  
• Develop materials and resources to highlight program offering  and amplify outcomes. 
 
Everyone is welcome in the Girls Who Game program.  
 
Learn more about starting a Girls Who Game Club.  
 
Contact a Dell Technologies expert today. 

View more Girls Who Game resources.  

Join the conversation with #girlswhogame 

Girls Who Game resources and documents cannot be used or sold independently outside of the Dell Technologies Girls Who Game Program. © 2023 Dell Inc. All rights reserved. 

Internal Use - Confidential  